releases: add tidb 5.1.2 release notes (#6500)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.1.2.md

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set compatible version from 5.1.0-alpha to 5.2.0-alpha [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)

>         - Fix the CLI compatibility issue with 4.0.x clusters on the default sort-engine option [#2414](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2414)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the CLI compatibility issue with 4.0.x clusters on the default sort-engine option [#2373](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2373)
```

## Feature enhancements

+ Tools

    + Dumpling

>         - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that do not support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that do not support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#309](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/issues/309)
```

        - Add a global `gRPC` connection pool and share `gRPC` connections among `kv` clients [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Trigger auto-analyze by histogram row count, increase the accuracy of this trigger action  [#24237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24237)
    - Push down mod() to TiFlash, increase the query performance. [#2318](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/2318)

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Support dynamically modifying CDC (Change Data Capture) configurations [#10645](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10645)
>     - Reduce the size of Resolved TS message to save network bandwidth [#2448](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2448)
>     - Limit the counts of peer states (PeerStat) in the heartbeat message reported by a single store [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)
> 
> + PD
> 
>     - Allow empty regions to be scheduled and use a separate tolerance configuration in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
>     - Improve the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)
>     - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of a store based on generated Operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Support dynamically modifying TiCDC configurations [#10645] (https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10645)
    - Reduce the size of Resolved TS message to save network bandwidth [#2448](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2448)
    - Limit the counts of peer states (PeerStat) in the heartbeat message reported by a single store [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

+ PD

    - Allow empty regions to be scheduled and use a separate tolerance configuration in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
    - Improve the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)
    - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of a store based on generated Operator [#3744](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3744)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Support the `DATE()` function
    - Add write throughput per instance to Grafana panels
    - Optimize the performance of the `leader-read` process
    - Accelerate the process of canceling `MPP` tasks

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)
>         - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high [#2488](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2488)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)
        - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high  [#2211](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2211)
```

    - Fix the issue that the distinct flag is missing when Apply is converted to Join [#26958](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26958)
    - Fix the issue that NO_ZERO_IN_DATE does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
    -  Set a block duration for the newly recovered TiFlash node to avoid blocking queries during this time [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
    - Fix a bug that might occur when the CTE is referenced more than once [#26212](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26212)
    - Fix a CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#25474](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25474)
    - Fix a bug that the 'SELECT FOR UPDATE' statement does not correctly lock the data when a normal table joins a partition table [#26251](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26251)
    - Fix the issue that the 'SELECT FOR UPDATE' statement returns an error when a normal table joins a partition table [#26250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26250)
    - Fix the issue that `PointGet` does not use the lite version of resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Fix bug when TiKV upgrade from 3.0 to 4.x and 5.x but there are still some files left by import. [#10902](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10902)
>     - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10813](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10813)
>     - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request. Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
>     - Bug fix: fix an unexpected panic when exceeds deadline on processing copr requests. [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)
>     - Fix TiKV panic when enable Titan and upgrade from pre-5.0 version. Fix newer TiKV can't rollback to 5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
>     - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
>     - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#26404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26404)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Fix a bug that some files are missed to be imported during the process of importing snapshot files when upgrading TiKV from v3.x to v4.x or v5.x [#10902](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10902)
    - Fix the issue that the GC failure (such as file corrupted) of a single snapshot file stops the GC process of all other GC-able files [#10813](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10813)
    - The slow log of TiKV coprocessor only considers the time spent on processing requests [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
    - Drop log instead of blocking threads when the slogger thread is overloaded and the queue is filled up [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
    - Fix a bug of unexpected Panic caused by timeout when processing Coprocessor requests [#10857](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10857)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when upgrading from a pre-5.0 version with Titan enabled [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV of a newer version cannot be rolled back to v5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV deletes files before the files are ingested to RocksDB [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
    - Fix the parsing failure caused by the left pessimistic locks [#26404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26404)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue of unexpected results when TiFlash fails to establish MPP connections
    - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency that occurs when TiFlash is deployed on multiple disks
    - Fix a bug that MPP queries get wrong results when TiFlash server is under high load
    - Fix a potential bug that MPP queries hang forever
    - Fix the issue of concurrency problem between store initialization and `DDL`
    - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT` `<` | `<=` | `>` | `>=` `COLUMN`
    - Fix the potential panic issue when `Snapshot` is applied simultaneously with with multiple DDL operations
    - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot perform GC for the delta data after running for a long time
    - Fix the issue of wrong results when `new collation` is enabled
    - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs during lock resolving
    - Fix a bug that metrics display wrong value

> + PD
> 
>     - Fix the bug that PD would not fix down-peer in time. [#4077](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4077)
>     - Fix an issue where data is not stored when using max-replicas or location-labels to indirectly update default placement rule [#3886](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3886)
>     - Fix the bug that PD may panic during scaling out TiKV. [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)
>     - Fix the bug that hot region scheduler can not work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler. [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)

Reviewer 2: This part should be moved to in front of the TiFlash part 

```suggestion
+ PD

    - Fix the issue that PD does not fix the down peers in time [#4077](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4077)
    - Fix the issue that the replica count of the default placement rules stays constant after `replication.max-replicas` is updated [#3886](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3886)
    - Fix a bug that PD might panic when scaling out TiKV [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)
    - Fix a bug that the hot region scheduler cannot work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)
```

> + PD
> 
>     - Fix the bug that PD would not fix down-peer in time. [#4077](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4077)
>     - Fix an issue where data is not stored when using max-replicas or location-labels to indirectly update default placement rule [#3886](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3886)
>     - Fix the bug that PD may panic during scaling out TiKV. [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)
>     - Fix the bug that hot region scheduler can not work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler. [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> + PD
> 
>     - Fix the bug that PD would not fix down-peer in time. [#4077](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4077)
>     - Fix an issue where data is not stored when using max-replicas or location-labels to indirectly update default placement rule [#3886](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3886)
>     - Fix the bug that PD may panic during scaling out TiKV. [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)
>     - Fix the bug that hot region scheduler can not work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler. [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that the average speed is not accurate during data backup and restore [#1405](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1405)

    + Dumpling

>         - Fix the issue that Dumpling is pending when `show table status` returns incorrect results in some MySQL versions (8.0.3, 8.0.23) [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Dumpling is pending when `show table status` returns incorrect results in some MySQL versions (8.0.3, 8.0.23) [#322](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/issues/322)
```

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix a bug that json encoding may cause panic when processing a string type value that is `string` or `[]byte`. [#2783](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2783)
>         - Reduce gRPC window size to avoid OOM [#2725](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2725)
>         - Fix gRPC keepalive error under high memory pressure. [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2720)
>         - Fix a bug that an unsigned tinyint causes TiCDC to panic. [#2656](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2656)
>         - Fix empty value issue in open protocol. An empty value is no longer output when there is no change in one transaction. [#2612](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2612)
>         - Fix a bug in DDL handling during manual restarts. [#2607](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2607)
>         - Fix the issue that EtcdWorker's snapshot isolation might be wrongly violated when managing the metadata [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)
>         - Fix the issue that multiple processors could write in the same table when re-scheduling this table [#2230](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2230)
>         - Fix the issue of the ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss error and that a changefeed is reset by accident. [#2422](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2422)
>         - Fix the issue that changefeed cannot be removed when the GcTTL Exceeded Error occors [#2391](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2391)
>         - Fix the issue that replicating large tables to `cdclog` fails [#2446](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2446)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that json encoding may cause panic when processing a string type value that is `string` or `[]byte`. [#2758](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2758)
        - Reduce gRPC window size to avoid OOM [#2202](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2202)
        - Fix gRPC keepalive error under high memory pressure. [#2202](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2202)
        - Fix a bug that an unsigned tinyint causes TiCDC to panic. [#2648](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2648)
        - Fix empty value issue in open protocol. An empty value is no longer output when there is no change in one transaction. [#2612](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2612)
        - Fix a bug in DDL handling during manual restarts [#2603](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2603)
        - Fix the issue that EtcdWorker's snapshot isolation might be wrongly violated when managing the metadata [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)
        - Fix the issue that multiple processors could write in the same table when re-scheduling this table [#2230](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2230)
        - Fix the issue of the ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss error and that a changefeed is reset by accident. [#2422](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2422)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed cannot be removed when the GcTTL Exceeded Error occors [#2391](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2391)
        - Fix the issue that replicating large tables to `cdclog` fails [#1259](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1259)[#2424](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2424)

```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Set compatible version from 5.1.0-alpha to 5.2.0-alpha [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
>         - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
>         - Fix CLI back-compatibility [#2414](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2414)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Set compatible version from 5.1.0-alpha to 5.2.0-alpha [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
        - Fix the CLI compatibility issue with 4.0.x clusters on the default sort-engine option [#2414](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2414)
```

## Feature enhancements

+ Tools

    + Dumpling

>         - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that don't support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)
>         - Add a global gRPC connection pool and share gRPC connections among kv clients. [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that do not support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)
        - Add a global `gRPC` connection pool and share `gRPC` connections among `kv` clients [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - Trigger auto-analyze based on histogram row count [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Support triggering auto-analyze based on histogram row count to improve the accuracy of auto-analyze triggering [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)
```

>     - Trigger auto-analyze based on histogram row count [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)
>     - push down mod() to TiFlash. [#27865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27865)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Trigger auto-analyze by histogram row count, increase the accuracy of this trigger action  [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)
    - Push down mod() to TiFlash, increase the query performance. [#27865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27865)
```

+ TiKV

    - Support dynamically modifying CDC (Change Data Capture) configurations [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
    - Reduce the size of Resolved TS message to save network bandwidth [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
    - Limit the counts of peer states (PeerStat) in the heartbeat message reported by a single store [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

+ PD

    - Allow empty regions to be scheduled and use a separate tolerance configuration in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
    - Improve the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)
    - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of a store based on generated Operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)

+ TiFlash

    - Support the `DATE()` function
    - Add write throughput per instance to Grafana panels
    - Optimize the performance of the `leader-read` process
    - Accelerate the process of canceling `MPP` tasks

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort. [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)
>         - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high. [#2488](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2488)
>         - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2378](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2378)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)
        - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high [#2488](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2488)
        - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2378](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2378)
```

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix wrong index hash join when hash col is enum. [#28081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28081)
>     - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection may block sending requests in some rare cases. [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
>     - Keep the overflow check logic same with mysql [#26725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26725)
>     - Fix #26147 that `tidb` returns an `unknow` error with no message while it should return the error that contains `pd is timeout`. [#26682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26682)
>     - Fix wrong charset and collation for case when function [#26673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26673)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix  the potential wrong results of index hash join when the hash column is in the ENUM type [#28081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28081)
    - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection may block sending requests in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
    - Fix the compatibility issue of the overflow check by keeping the same logic as MySQL [#26725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26725)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB returns an `unknow` error while it should return the `pd is timeout` error [#26682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26682)
    - Fix the error of the case when function caused by the wrong charset and collation [#26673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26673)
```

    - Fix an issue that the `TABLESAMPLE` query result from partitioned tables is not sorted as expected. [#27411](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27411)
    - expression: fix extract bug when argument is a negative duration [#27367](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27367)
    - The undocumented `/debug/sub-optimal-plan`  HTTP API has been removed. [#27265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27265)
    - fix wrong selection push down when having above agg [#27258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27258)
    - fix a bug that query on hash partition table return wrong reslut [#27164](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27164)
    - executor: fix unexpected behavior when casting invalid string to date [#27112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27112)
    - fix a bug that creates partition fail if `NO_UNSIGNED_SUBTRACTION` is set. [#27053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27053)
    - planner: add missing distinct flag for Apply convert to join. [#26969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26969)
    - Fix an issue that NO_ZERO_IN_DATE does not work on the default values. [#26904](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26904)

>     - store/copr: block the tiflash node for a period when it fails before. [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
>     - Fix then bug if the CTE is referenced more than once. [#26661](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26661)
>     - planner: fix CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#26658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26658)
>     - Fix a bug 'select for update' does not correctly lock the data when a normal table join a partition table. [#26631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26631)
>     - Fix a panic when select for update on a normal table join a partition table [#26563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26563)
>     - Fix the issue that point get does not use lite version resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    -  Set a block duration for the newly recovered TiFlash node to avoid blocking queries during this time [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
    - Fix a bug that might occur when the CTE is referenced more than once [#26661](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26661)
    - Fix a CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#26658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26658)
    - Fix a bug that the 'SELECT FOR UPDATE' statement does not correctly lock the data when a normal table joins a partition table [#26631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26631)
    - Fix the issue that the 'SELECT FOR UPDATE' statement returns an error when a normal table joins a partition table [#26563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26563)
    - Fix the issue that `PointGet` does not use the lite version of resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)
```

    - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10741](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10741)
    - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#10653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10653)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue of unexpected results when TiFlash fails to establish MPP connections
    - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency that occurs when TiFlash is deployed on multiple disks
    - Fix a bug that MPP queries get wrong results when TiFlash server is under high load
    - Fix a potential bug that MPP queries hang forever
    - Fix the issue of concurrency problem between store initialization and `DDL`
    - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT` `<` | `<=` | `>` | `>=` `COLUMN`
    - Fix the potential panic when applying `Snapshot` with multiple DDL operations
    - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot GC the delta data after running for a long time
    - Fix the issue of wrong results when new collation is enabled

>     - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when resolving locks

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs during lock resolving
```

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Fix the issue of unexpected results when TiFlash fails to establish MPP connections
>     - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency that occurs when TiFlash is deployed on multiple disks
>     - Fix a bug that MPP queries get wrong results when TiFlash server is under high load
>     - Fix a potential bug that MPP queries hang forever
>     - Fix the issue of concurrency problem between store initialization and `DDL`
>     - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT` `<` | `<=` | `>` | `>=` `COLUMN`
>     - Fix the potential panic when applying `Snapshot` with multiple DDL operations
>     - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
>     - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot GC the delta data after running for a long time
>     - Fix the issue of wrong results when new collation is enabled
>     - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when resolving locks
>     - Fix a bug that metrics display wrong value

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue of unexpected results when TiFlash fails to establish MPP connections
    - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency that occurs when TiFlash is deployed on multiple disks
    - Fix a bug that MPP queries get wrong results when TiFlash server is under high load
    - Fix a potential bug that MPP queries hang forever
    - Fix the issue of concurrency problem between store initialization and `DDL`
    - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT` `<` | `<=` | `>` | `>=` `COLUMN`
    - Fix the potential panic issue when `Snapshot` is applied simultaneously with with multiple DDL operations
    - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot perform GC for the delta data after running for a long time
    - Fix the issue of wrong results when `new collation` is enabled
    - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs during lock resolving
    - Fix a bug that metrics display wrong value
```

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that PD would not fix down-peer in time. [#4083](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4083)
    - Fix an issue where data is not stored when using max-replicas or location-labels to indirectly update default placement rule [#3915](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3915)
    - Fix the bug that PD may panic during scaling out TiKV. [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)
    - Fix the bug that hot region scheduler can not work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler. [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - fix the issue that the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)
```

    + Dumpling

>         - fix pending on show table status in some mysql version [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - fix the issue that dumpling's pending on `show table status` in some mysql version [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)
```

>         - Fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate during data backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the average speed is not accurate during data backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)
```

>         - Fix pending on show table status in some MySQL versions (8.0.3, 8.0.23) [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Dumpling is pending when `show table status` returns incorrect results in some MySQL versions (8.0.3, 8.0.23) [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)
```

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix json encoding may cause panic when processing a string type value in some cases. [#2783](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2783)
>         - Fix OOM when TiCDC captures too many regions [#2725](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2725)
>         - Fix gRPC keepalive error when memory pressure is high. [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2720)
>         - Fix a bug that causes TiCDC to panic on an unsigned tinyint [#2656](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2656)
>         - Fix open protocol, don't output an empty value when there is no change in one transaction. [#2621](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2621)
>         - Fixed a bug in DDL handling when the owner restarts. [#2607](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2607)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that json encoding may cause panic when processing a string type value that is `string` or `[]byte`. [#2783](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2783)
        - Reduce gRPC window size to avoid OOM [#2725](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2725)
        - Fix gRPC keepalive error under high memory pressure. [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2720)
        - Fix a bug that an unsigned tinyint causes TiCDC to panic. [#2656](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2656)
        - Fix empty value issue in open protocol. An empty value is no longer output when there is no change in one transaction. [#2621](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2621)
        - Fix a bug in DDL handling during manual restarts. [#2607](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2607)
```

>         - Fix a bug in metadata management [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)
>         - Fix a bug that multiple processors could write the same table when this table is re-scheduling [#2493](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2493)
>         - Fix a bug that owner could meet ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss error and reset a changefeed by accident. [#2459](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2459)
>         - fix the bug that changefeed cannot be removed if meet GcTTL Exceeded Error [#2454](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2454)
>         - fix a bug where synchronizing large tables to cdclog failed. [#2446](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2446)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that EtcdWorker's snapshot isolation might be wrongly violated when managing the metadata [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)
        - Fix the issue that multiple processors could write in the same table when re-scheduling this table [#2493](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2493)
        - Fix the issue of the ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss error and that a changefeed is reset by accident. [#2459](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2459)
        - fix the issue that changefeed cannot be removed when the GcTTL Exceeded Error occors [#2454](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2454)
        - fix the issue that replicating large tables to `cdclog` fails. [#2446](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2446)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

+ TiDB

    + The following bug fixes change execution results, which might cause upgrade incompatibilities:
        - Fix the issue that `greatest(datetime) union null` returns empty string [#26532](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26532)
        - Fix the issue that the `having` clause might not work correctly [#26496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26496)
        - Fix the wrong execution results that occur when the collations around the `between` expression are different [#27146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27146)
        - Fix the wrong execution results that occur when the column in the `group_concat` function has a non-bin collation [#27429](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27429)
        - Fix an issue that using a `count(distinct)` expression on multiple columns returns wrong result when the new collation is enabled [#27091](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27091)
        - Fix the result wrong that occurs when the argument of the `extract` function is a negative duration [#27236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27236)
        - Fix the issue that inserting an invalid date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'STRICT_TRANS_TABLES' [#26762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26762)
        - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766]
        
```

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set the compatible version from `5.1.0-alpha` to `5.2.0-alpha` [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
        - Fix the CLI compatibility issue with 4.0.x clusters on the default `sort-engine` option [#2373](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2373)

> ## Feature enhancement

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## Feature enhancements
```

+ Tools

    + Dumpling

        - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that don't support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)
        - Add a global gRPC connection pool and share gRPC connections among kv clients. [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Trigger auto-analyze based on histogram row count [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)
    - push down mod() to TiFlash. [#27865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27865)

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Support changing CDC configs dynamically [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
>     - Reduce resolved ts message size to save network bandwidth. [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
>     - limit the hotspot report count. [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)
> 
> + PD
> 
>     - dynamically adjust the retry limit according to the operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)
>     - allow empty region to be scheduled and use a sperate tolerance config in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
>     - Improved the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs. [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Support dynamically modifying the CDC (Change Data Capture) configurations [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
    - Reduce the size of Resolved TS message to save network bandwidth [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
    - Limit the counts of peer states (PeerStat) in the heartbeat message reported by a single store [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

+ PD

    - Allow empty regions to be scheduled and use a separate tolerance configuration in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
    - Improve the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)
    - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of a store based on generated Operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)
```

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Support the `DATE()` function
>     - Add write throughput per instance to Grafana panels
>     - Optimize the performance of the `leader-read` process
>     - Accelerate the process of canceling MPP tasks

Reviewer 2: - Line 51: [5.0.4](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/6449/files), line 55

```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Support the `DATE()` function
    - Add Grafana panels for write throughput per instance
    - Optimize the performance of the `leader-read` process
    - Accelerate the process of canceling MPP tasks
```

        - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort data [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)
        - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high  [#2211](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2211)
        - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's Region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2284](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2284)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the potential wrong results of index hash join when the hash column is the `ENUM` type [#27893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27893)
    - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection might block sending requests in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
    - Fix the compatibility issue of the overflow check by keeping the same logic as MySQL [#23897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23897)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB returns an `unknow` error while it should return the `pd is timeout` error [#26147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26147)
    - Fix the error of the `case when` function caused by the wrong charset and collation [#26662](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26662)

>     - Fix the issue that `greatest(datetime) union null` returns an empty string [#26532](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26532)
>     - Fix the potential `can not found column in Schema column` error for MPP queries [#28148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28148)
>     - Fix a bug that TiDB might panic when TiFlash is shutting down [#28096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28096)
>     - Fix the issue of wrong range caused by using `enum like 'x%'` [#27130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27130)
>     - Fix the issue that the `between` expression infers wrong collation [#27146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27146)
>     - Fix the Common Table Expression (CTE) dead lock issue when used with IndexLookupJoin [#27410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27410)
>     - Fix a bug that retryable deadlocks are incorrectly recorded into the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DEADLOCKS` table [#27400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27400)
>     - Fix a bug that the `GROUP_CONCAT` function does not consider the collation [#27429](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27429)
>     - Fix a bug that the `COUNT(DISTINCT)` function on multiple columns returns wrong results when the new collation is enabled [#27091](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27091)
>     - Fix the issue that the `TABLESAMPLE` query result from partitioned tables is not sorted as expected [#27349](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27349)
>     - Fix a bug that the `EXTRACT` function returns wrong results when the argument is a negative duration [#27236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27236)
>     - Remove the unused `/debug/sub-optimal-plan` HTTP API  [#27265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27265)
>     - Fix the issue that a wrong selection is pushed down when the `HAVING` condition is used in the aggregate function [#26496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26496)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential `can not found column in Schema column` error for MPP queries [#28148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28148)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB might panic when TiFlash is shutting down [#28096](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28096)
    - Fix the issue of wrong range caused by using `enum like 'x%'` [#27130](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27130)
    - Fix the Common Table Expression (CTE) dead lock issue when used with IndexLookupJoin [#27410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27410)
    - Fix a bug that retryable deadlocks are incorrectly recorded into the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DEADLOCKS` table [#27400](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27400)
    - Fix the issue that the `TABLESAMPLE` query result from partitioned tables is not sorted as expected [#27349](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27349)
    - Remove the unused `/debug/sub-optimal-plan` HTTP API  [#27265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27265)
```

    - Fix a bug that the query might return wrong results when the hash partitioned table deals with unsigned data [#26569](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26569)

>     - Fix the unexpected behavior when casting an invalid string to `DATE` [#26762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26762)
>     - Fix a bug that creating partition fails if `NO_UNSIGNED_SUBTRACTION` is set [#26765](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26765)
>     - Fix the issue that the `distinct` flag is missing when `Apply` is converted to `Join` [#26958](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26958)
>     - Fix the issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that creating partition fails if `NO_UNSIGNED_SUBTRACTION` is set [#26765](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26765)
    - Fix the issue that the `distinct` flag is missing when `Apply` is converted to `Join` [#26958](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26958)
```

    - planner: add missing distinct flag for Apply convert to join. [#26969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26969)
    - Fix an issue that NO_ZERO_IN_DATE does not work on the default values. [#26904](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26904)
    - store/copr: block the tiflash node for a period when it fails before. [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
    - Fix then bug if the CTE is referenced more than once. [#26661](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26661)
    - planner: fix CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#26658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26658)
    - Fix a bug 'select for update' does not correctly lock the data when a normal table join a partition table. [#26631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26631)
    - Fix a panic when select for update on a normal table join a partition table [#26563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26563)
    - Fix the issue that point get does not use lite version resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)

+ TiKV

>     - Fix bug when TiKV upgrade from 3.0 to 4.x and 5.x but there are still some files left by import. [#10912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10912)
>     - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10873](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10873)
>     - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request. Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
>     - Bug fix: fix an unexpected panic when exceeds deadline on processing copr requests. [#10856](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10856)
>     - Fix TiKV panic when enable Titan and upgrade from pre-5.0 version. Fix newer TiKV can't rollback to 5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
>     - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10741](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10741)
>     - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#10653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10653)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix bug when TiKV upgrade from 3.0 to 4.x and 5.x but there are still some files left by import. [#10912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10912)
    - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10873](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10873)
    - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request. Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
    - Bug fix: fix an unexpected panic when exceeds deadline on processing copr requests. [#10856](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10856)
    - Fix TiKV panic when enable Titan and upgrade from pre-5.0 version. Fix newer TiKV can't rollback to 5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10741](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10741)
    - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#10653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10653)
```

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Fix a bug that some files are missed during the process of importing snapshot files when upgrading TiKV from v3.x to later versions [#10902](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10902)
>     - Fix the potential disk full issue caused by corrupted snapshot files [#10813](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10813)
>     - Make the slow log of TiKV coprocessor only consider the time spent on processing requests [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
>     - Drop log instead of blocking threads when the slogger thread is overloaded and the queue is filled up [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
>     - Fix a panic issue that occurs when processing Coprocessor requests times out [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)
>     - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs when upgrading from a pre-5.0 version with Titan enabled [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
>     - Fix the issue that TiKV of a newer version cannot be rolled back to v5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
>     - Fix the issue that TiKV might delete files before it ingests data to RocksDB [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
>     - Fix the parsing failure caused by the left pessimistic locks [#26404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26404)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Fix a bug that some snapshot files are missed during importing after TiKV upgrade from v3.x to later versions [#10902](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10902)
    - Fix the potential disk full issue caused by corrupted snapshot files [#10813](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10813)
    - Make the slow log of TiKV coprocessor only consider the time spent on processing requests [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
    - Drop log instead of blocking threads when the slogger thread is overloaded and the queue is filled up [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs when processing Coprocessor requests times out [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)
    - Fix the TiKV panic issue that occurs during an upgrade from a pre-5.0 version with Titan enabled [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV of a newer version cannot be rolled back to v5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV may delete files before ingesting data to RocksDB [#10438](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10438)
    - Fix the parsing failure caused by left pessimistic locks [#26404](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26404)
```

+ PD

    - Fix the issue that PD does not fix the down peers in time [#4077](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4077)
    - Fix the issue that the replica count of the default placement rules stays constant after `replication.max-replicas` is updated [#3886](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3886)
    - Fix a bug that PD might panic when scaling out TiKV [#3868](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3868)
    - Fix a bug that the hot Region scheduler cannot work when the cluster has the evict leader scheduler [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3697)

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Fix the issue of unexpected results when TiFlash fails to establish MPP connections
>     - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency that occurs when TiFlash is deployed on multiple disks
>     - Fix a bug that MPP queries get wrong results when TiFlash server is under high load
>     - Fix a potential bug that MPP queries hang forever
>     - Fix the issue of concurrency issue between store initialization and DDL
>     - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT`, `<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=` or `COLUMN`
>     - Fix the potential panic issue when `Snapshot` is applied simultaneously with multiple DDL operations
>     - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
>     - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot perform GC for the delta data after running for a long time
>     - Fix the issue of wrong results when new collation is enabled
>     - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs during lock resolving
>     - Fix a bug that metrics display wrong value

Reviewer 2: - Line 112: personal suggestion refer to line 124
- Line 123: [5.0.4](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/6449/files), line 165
- Line 126: [5.0.4](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/6449/files), line 166
- Line 127: personal suggestion 
- Line 128: [5.0.4](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/6449/files), line 163
- Line 129: [5.0.4](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/6449/files), line 167

```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue of unexpected results when TiFlash fails to establish MPP connections
    - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency that occurs when TiFlash is deployed on multiple disks
    - Fix a bug that MPP queries get wrong results when TiFlash server is under high load
    - Fix a potential bug that MPP queries hang forever
    - Fix the panic issue when operating store initialization and DDL simultaneously
    - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT`, `<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`, or `COLUMN`
    - Fix the potential panic issue when `Snapshot` is applied simultaneously with multiple DDL operations
    - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot garbage-collect the delta data after running for a long time
    - Fix the issue of wrong results when the new collation is enabled
    - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when resolving locks
    - Fix a potential bug that metrics display wrong values
```

Reviewer 5: 1. Modification in lines 127 and 133 may result in dangling structure, which means the intended subject differs from the subject of the sentence.
2. Maybe GC is a common word that does not need the full name.

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that the average speed is not accurate during data backup and restore [#1405](https://github.com/pingcap/br/issues/1405)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix the issue that Dumpling is pending when `show table status` returns incorrect results in some MySQL versions (8.0.3 and 8.0.23) [#322](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/issues/322)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix a bug that the JSON encoding might cause panic when processing a string type value that is `string` or `[]byte` [#2758](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2758)
        - Reduce gRPC window size to avoid OOM [#2202](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2202)

>         - Fix a gRPC keepalive error under high memory pressure [#2202](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2202)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix a gRPC `keepalive` error under high memory pressure [#2202](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2202)
```

        - Fix a bug that an unsigned `tinyint` causes TiCDC to panic [#2648](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2648)
        - Fix an empty value issue in TiCDC Open Protocol. An empty value is no longer output when there is no change in one transaction. [#2612](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2612)
        - Fix a bug in DDL handling during manual restarts [#2603](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2603)
        - Fix the issue that `EtcdWorker`'s snapshot isolation might be wrongly violated when managing the metadata [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)

>         - Fix the issue that multiple processors might write data in the same table when re-scheduling this table [#2230](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2230)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that multiple processors might write data to the same table when TiCDC is rescheduling the table [#2230](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2230)
```

>         - Fix the issue of the `ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss` error and the issue that a changefeed is reset by accident [#2422](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2422)
>         - Fix the issue that a changefeed cannot be removed when the `GcTTL Exceeded` error occurs [#2391](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2391)
>         - Fix the issue that replicating large tables to `cdclog` fails [#1259](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1259) [#2424](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2424)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that changefeed might be reset unexpectedly when TiCDC gets the `ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss` error [#2422](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2422)
        - Fix a bug that changefeed cannot be removed when TiCDC gets the `ErrGCTTLExceeded` error [#2391](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2391)
        - Fix a bug that TiCDC fails to synchronize large tables to cdclog [#1259](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1259) [#2424](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2424)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set the compatible version from `5.1.0-alpha` to `5.2.0-alpha` [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
        - Fix the CLI compatibility issue with 4.0.x clusters on the default `sort-engine` option [#2373](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2373)

## Feature enhancement

+ Tools

    + Dumpling

        - Support backing up MySQL-compatible databases that do not support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE` [#309](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/issues/309)
        - Add a global gRPC connection pool and share gRPC connections among KV clients [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Trigger auto-analyze by histogram row count and increase the accuracy of this trigger action  [#24237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24237)

>     - Push down `mod()` to TiFlash to increase the query performance [#2318](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/2318)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Trigger auto-analyze based on histogram row count [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion

+TiKV
    - Support changing CDC configs dynamically [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
    - Reduce resolved ts message size to save network bandwidth. [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
    - limit the hotspot report count. [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - push down mod() to TiFlash. [#27865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27865)
```

+ TiFlash

    - Support pushing down ROUND(X) to TiFlash. [#2611](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2611)
    - support function DATE() pushed down to tiflash [#2602](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2602)
    - support functions of ADDDATE() and DATE_ADD() pushed down to tiflash [#2591](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2591)
    - retry when meeting stablish conn fails [#2570](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2570)
    - Support pushing down MOD(N, M) to TiFlash. [#2560](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2560)
    - Add Grafana panels for write throughput per instance [#2544](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2544)
    -  Cherry-pick #2216 #2460 #2494 & Optimizr read-index retry to release-5.1 [#2345](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2345)

> 

Reviewer 9: + PD
- dynamically adjust the retry limit according to the operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix wrong index hash join when hash col is enum. [#28081](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28081)
    - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection may block sending requests in some rare cases. [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
    - Keep the overflow check logic same with mysql [#26725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26725)
    - Fix #26147 that `tidb` returns an `unknow` error with no message while it should return the error that contains `pd is timeout`. [#26682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26682)
    - Fix wrong charset and collation for case when function [#26673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26673)
    - Fix the issue that greatest(datetime) union null returns empty string [#26566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26566)

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion

+ TiKV

    - Fix bug when TiKV upgrade from 3.0 to 4.x and 5.x but there are still some files left by import. [#10912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10912)
    - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10873](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10873)
    - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request.
    - Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
    - Bug fix: fix an unexpected panic when exceeds deadline on processing copr requests. [#10856](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10856)
    - Fix TiKV panic when enable Titan and upgrade from pre-5.0 version
    - Fix newer TiKV can't rollback to 5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10741](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10741)
    - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#10653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10653)

```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix `can not found column in Schema column` error for mpp queries [#28148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28148)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB may crash when TiFlash is shutting down. [#28139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28139)
    - This reverts commit d4cd12fe422fb18b6012607ee18b6acca40d9225. [#28091](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28091)
    - planner: fix the problem of using `enum like 'x%'` to build the wrong range [#28066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28066)
    - fix expression rewrite makes between expr infers wrong collation. [#27549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27549)
    - execution: fix cte dead lock when used with IndexLookupJoin [#27536](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27536)
    - Fix a bug that retryable deadlocks are incorrectly recorded into `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DEADLOCKS` table. [#27535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27535)
    - make `group_concat` function consider the collation [#27529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27529)
    - Fix bug that count disctinct on multi-columns return wrong result when new collation is on. [#27506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27506)
    - Fix an issue that the `TABLESAMPLE` query result from partitioned tables is not sorted as expected. [#27411](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27411)
    - expression: fix extract bug when argument is a negative duration [#27367](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27367)
    - The undocumented `/debug/sub-optimal-plan`  HTTP API has been removed. [#27265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27265)
    - fix wrong selection push down when having above agg [#27258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27258)
    - fix a bug that query on hash partition table return wrong reslut [#27164](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27164)
    - executor: fix unexpected behavior when casting invalid string to date [#27112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27112)
    - fix a bug that creates partition fail if `NO_UNSIGNED_SUBTRACTION` is set. [#27053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27053)
    - planner: add missing distinct flag for Apply convert to join. [#26969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26969)
    - Fix an issue that NO_ZERO_IN_DATE does not work on the default values. [#26904](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26904)
    - store/copr: block the tiflash node for a period when it fails before. [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
    - Fix then bug if the CTE is referenced more than once. [#26661](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26661)
    - planner: fix CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#26658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26658)
    - Fix a bug 'select for update' does not correctly lock the data when a normal table join a partition table. [#26631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26631)
    - Fix a panic when select for update on a normal table join a partition table [#26563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26563)
    - Fix the issue that point get does not use lite version resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)
```

    - Fix false alert of expected internal DDL error [#2673](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2673)
    - Fix the bug that filters unexpected data if the query contains "constant" "<"/"<="/">"/">=" "column" [#2635](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2635)
    - Fix an overflow bug in decimal MOD(N, M). [#2609](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2609)
    - Fix the potential panic when applying Snapshot with multiple DDL operations [#2606](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2606)
    - Fix inaccurate store size on tiflash metric under heavy write scenario [#2598](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2598)
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot GC the delta data after running for a long time [#2337](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2337)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that PD would not fix down-peer in time. [#4083](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4083)
    - Fix an issue where data is not stored when using max-replicas or location-labels to indirectly update default placement rule [#3915](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3915)
    - Fix the bug that PD may panic during scaling out TiKV. [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)

> 

Reviewer 9: Fix the bug that hot region scheduler can not work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler. [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the bug that in concurrency mode, pd schedulers may not be restored if one or more lightning failed. [#1422](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1422)
        - Fix the bug that lightning local backend may met checksum mismatch error due to data loss. [#1416](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1416)

> ## __unsorted

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## ## 以下 note 未分类。请将以下 note 进行分类 (Feature enhancements, Improvements, Bug fixes, Compatibility Changes 四类)，并移动到上面对应的标题下。如果某条 note 为多余的，请删除。如果漏抓取了 note，请手动补充
```

> ## ## 以下 note 未分类。请将以下 note 进行分类 (Feature enhancements, Improvements, Bug fixes, Compatibility Changes 四类)，并移动到上面对应的标题下。如果某条 note 为多余的，请删除。如果漏抓取了 note，请手动补充

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## 以下 note 未分类。请将以下 note 进行分类 (Feature enhancements, Improvements, Bug fixes, Compatibility Changes 四类)，并移动到上面对应的标题下。如果某条 note 为多余的，请删除。如果漏抓取了 note，请手动补充
```

    - store/copr: block the tiflash node for a period when it fails before. [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
    - Fix then bug if the CTE is referenced more than once. [#26661](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26661)
    - planner: fix CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#26658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26658)
    - Fix a bug 'select for update' does not correctly lock the data when a normal table join a partition table. [#26631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26631)
    - Fix a panic when select for update on a normal table join a partition table [#26563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26563)
    - Fix the issue that point get does not use lite version resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)

+ TiKV

    - Fix bug when TiKV upgrade from 3.0 to 4.x and 5.x but there are still some files left by import. [#10912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10912)
    - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10873](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10873)

>     - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request.
>     - Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request. Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
```

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Fix bug when TiKV upgrade from 3.0 to 4.x and 5.x but there are still some files left by import. [#10912](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10912)
>     - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10873](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10873)
>     - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request.
>     - Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
>     - Bug fix: fix an unexpected panic when exceeds deadline on processing copr requests. [#10856](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10856)
>     - Fix TiKV panic when enable Titan and upgrade from pre-5.0 version
>     - Fix newer TiKV can't rollback to 5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
>     - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10741](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10741)
>     - Support changing CDC configs dynamically [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
>     - Reduce resolved ts message size to save network bandwidth. [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
>     - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#10653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10653)
>     - limit the hotspot report count. [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)
> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

+ PingCAP/TiFlash

    - function result name should contain collator info [#2819](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2819)
    - Support INET6_ATON and INET6_NTOA in TiFlash. [#2624](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2624)
    - Support INET_ATON and INET_NTOA in TiFlash. [#2613](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2613)
    - update client to fix race bug [#2583](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2583)
    - expand streams after aggregation [#2537](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2537)
    - Improve the mpp cancel process to cancel the mpp task ASAP [#2518](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2518)
    - Fix the bug may cause metrics to display error value. [#2469](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2469)

+ PD

    - allow empty region to be scheduled and use a sperate tolerance config in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
    - Improved the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs. [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)

> 

Reviewer 9: - dynamically adjust the retry limit according to the operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)
-

+ Tools

>     + Backup & Restore (BR)
> 
>         - fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)
> 
>     + Dumpling
> 
>         - fix pending on show table status in some mysql version [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)
>         - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that don't support START TRANSACTION  ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT
>         - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that don't support SHOW CREATE TABLE [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)
> 
>     + TiCDC
> 
>         - Fix json encoding could panic when processing a string type value in some cases. [#2783](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2783)
>         - Fix a bug that multiple processors could write the same table when this table is re-scheduling [#2729](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2729)
>         - Fix OOM when TiCDC captures too many regions [#2725](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2725)
>         - Fix gRPC keepalive error when memory pressure is high. [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2720)
>         - Optimize memory management when unified sorter is using memory to sort. [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)
>         - Set compatible version from 5.1.0-alpha to 5.2.0-alpha [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
>         - Fix a bug that causes TiCDC to panic on an unsigned tinyint [#2656](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2656)
>         - Fix open protocol, don't output an empty value when there is no change in one transaction. [#2621](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2621)
>         - Fixed a bug in DDL handling when the owner restarts. [#2607](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2607)
>         - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
>         - Fix a bug in metadata management [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)
>         - Add a global gRPC connection pool and share gRPC connections among kv clients. [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)
>         - Fix a bug that multiple processors could write the same table when this table is re-scheduling [#2493](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2493)
>         - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high. [#2488](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2488)
>         - Fix a bug that owner could meet ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss error and reset a changefeed by accident. [#2459](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2459)
>         - fix the bug that changefeed cannot be removed if meet GcTTL Exceeded Error [#2454](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2454)
>         - fix a bug where synchronizing large tables to cdclog failed. [#2446](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2446)
>         - Fix CLI back-compatibility [#2414](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2414)
>         - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2378](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2378)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
## Bug fixes

     + Backup & Restore (BR)
         - fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)

     + Dumpling

         - fix pending on show table status in some mysql version [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)
  
     + TiCDC

         - Fix json encoding may cause panic when processing a string type value in some cases. [#2783](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2783)
         - Fix OOM when TiCDC captures too many regions [#2725](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2725)
         - Fix gRPC keepalive error when memory pressure is high. [#2720](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2720)
         - Fix a bug that causes TiCDC to panic on an unsigned tinyint [#2656](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2656)
         - Fix open protocol, don't output an empty value when there is no change in one transaction. [#2621](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2621)
         - Fixed a bug in DDL handling when the owner restarts. [#2607](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2607)
         - Fix a bug in metadata management [#2559](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2559)
         - Fix a bug that multiple processors could write the same table when this table is re-scheduling [#2493](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2493)
         - Fix a bug that owner could meet ErrSchemaStorageTableMiss error and reset a changefeed by accident. [#2459](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2459)
         - fix the bug that changefeed cannot be removed if meet GcTTL Exceeded Error [#2454](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2454)
         - fix a bug where synchronizing large tables to cdclog failed. [#2446](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2446)

## Improvements

     + TiCDC
         - Optimize memory management when unified sorter is using memory to sort. [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)
         - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high. [#2488](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2488)
         - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2378](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2378)

## Feature enhancements

    + Dumpling
        - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that don't support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)
        - Add a global gRPC connection pool and share gRPC connections among kv clients. [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)

## Compatibility changes

     + TiCDC
         - Set compatible version from 5.1.0-alpha to 5.2.0-alpha [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
         - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
         - Fix CLI back-compatibility [#2414](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2414)

```

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    + The following bug fixes change execution results, which might cause upgrade incompatibilities:
    
        - Fix the issue that `greatest(datetime) union null` returns empty string [#26532](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26532)
        - Fix the issue that the `having` clause might not work correctly [#26496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26496)
        - Fix the wrong execution results that occur when the collations around the `between` expression are different [#27146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27146)
        - Fix the wrong execution results that occur when the column in the `group_concat` function has a non-bin collation [#27429](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27429)
        - Fix an issue that using a `count(distinct)` expression on multiple columns returns wrong result when the new collation is enabled [#27091](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27091)
        - Fix the result wrong that occurs when the argument of the `extract` function is a negative duration [#27236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27236)

>         - Fix the issue that inserting an invalid date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'STRICT_TRANS_TABLES' [#26762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26762)
>         - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that inserting an invalid date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'STRICT_TRANS_TABLES' [#26762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26762)
        - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
```

    - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of a store based on the generated operator [#3744](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3744)

+ TiFlash

    - Support the `DATE()` function
    - Add Grafana panels for write throughput per instance
    - Optimize the performance of the `leader-read` process
    - Accelerate the process of canceling MPP tasks

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort data [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)
        - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high  [#2211](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2211)
        - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's Region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2284](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2284)

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the potential wrong results of index hash join when the hash column is the `ENUM` type [#27893](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27893)
    - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection might block sending requests in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)

>     - Fix the compatibility issue of the overflow check by keeping the same logic as MySQL [#23897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23897)
>     - Fix the issue that TiDB returns an `unknow` error while it should return the `pd is timeout` error [#26147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26147)
>     - Fix the error of the `case when` function caused by the wrong charset and collation [#26662](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26662)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the overflow check of the `FLOAT64` type is different with that of MySQL [#23897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23897)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB returns an `unknow` error while it should return the `pd is timeout` error [#26147](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26147)
     - Fix the wrong character set and collation for the `case when` expression [#26662](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26662)
```

    - Fix a CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#25474](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25474)
    - Fix a bug that the `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statement does not correctly lock the data when a normal table joins a partitioned table [#26251](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26251)
    - Fix the issue that the `SELECT FOR UPDATE` statement returns an error when a normal table joins a partitioned table [#26250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26250)
    - Fix the issue that `PointGet` does not use the lite version of resolving lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)

+ TiKV

    - Fix a panic issue that occurs after TiKV is upgraded from v3.x to later versions [#10902](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10902)
    - Fix the potential disk full issue caused by corrupted snapshot files [#10813](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10813)
    - Make the slow log of TiKV coprocessor only consider the time spent on processing requests [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)
    - Drop log instead of blocking threads when the slogger thread is overloaded and the queue is filled up [#10841](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10841)

>     - Fix a panic issue that occurs when processing Coprocessor requests times out [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs when TiKV processes Coprocessor requests times out [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)
```

>     - Fix a panic issue that occurs when TiKV processes Coprocessor requests times out [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs when processing Coprocessor requests times out [#10852](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10852)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

>     + The following bug fixes change execution results, which might cause upgrade incompatibilities:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    + The following bug fixes change execution results, which might cause upgrade incompatibilities:
    
```

    - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection may block sending requests in some rare cases. [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
    - Keep the overflow check logic same with mysql [#26725](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26725)
    - Fix #26147 that `tidb` returns an `unknow` error with no message while it should return the error that contains `pd is timeout`. [#26682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26682)
    - Fix wrong charset and collation for case when function [#26673](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26673)
    - Fix the issue that greatest(datetime) union null returns empty string [#26566](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26566)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the potential issue of data inconsistency after crashes when deployed on multi-disks [#2776](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2776)
    - Please add a release note, or a 'None' if it is not needed. [#2762](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2762)
    - Please add a release note, or a 'None' if it is not needed. [#2710](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2710)
    - Fix concurrency between init store and DDL. [#2693](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2693)

>     - ```release-note [#2673](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2673)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix false alert of expected internal DDL error [#2673](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/2673)
```

+ PD

    - Allow empty Regions to be scheduled and use a separate tolerance configuration in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
    - Improve the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)
    - Support dynamically adjusting the retry limit of a store based on the generated operator [#3744](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3744)

+ TiFlash

    - Support the `DATE()` function
    - Add Grafana panels for write throughput per instance
    - Optimize the performance of the `leader-read` process
    - Accelerate the process of canceling MPP tasks

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort data [#2553](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2553)
        - Optimize workerpool for fewer goroutines when concurrency is high  [#2211](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2211)
        - Reduce goroutine usage when a table's Region transfer away from a TiKV node [#2284](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2284)

> ## Bug Fixes

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## Bug fixes
```

    - make `group_concat` function consider the collation [#27529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27529)
    - Fix bug that count disctinct on multi-columns return wrong result when new collation is on. [#27506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27506)
    - Fix an issue that the `TABLESAMPLE` query result from partitioned tables is not sorted as expected. [#27411](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27411)
    - expression: fix extract bug when argument is a negative duration [#27367](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27367)
    - The undocumented `/debug/sub-optimal-plan`  HTTP API has been removed. [#27265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27265)
    - fix wrong selection push down when having above agg [#27258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27258)
    - fix a bug that query on hash partition table return wrong reslut [#27164](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27164)
    - executor: fix unexpected behavior when casting invalid string to date [#27112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27112)
    - fix a bug that creates partition fail if `NO_UNSIGNED_SUBTRACTION` is set. [#27053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27053)

>     - Please add a release note, or a 'None' if it is not needed. [#26969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26969)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - planner: add missing distinct flag for Apply convert to join. [#26969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26969)
```

    - RaftStore Snapshot GC fix: fix the issue that snapshot GC missed GC snapshot files when there's one snapshot file failed to be GC-ed. [#10873](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10873)
    - TiKV coprocessor slow log will only consider time spent on processing the request.
    - Drop log instead of blocking threads when slogger thread is overloaded and queue is filled up. [#10865](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10865)
    - Bug fix: fix an unexpected panic when exceeds deadline on processing copr requests. [#10856](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10856)
    - Fix TiKV panic when enable Titan and upgrade from pre-5.0 version
    - Fix newer TiKV can't rollback to 5.0.x [#10842](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10842)
    - Fix TiKV delete files before it ingests to RocksDB. [#10741](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10741)
    - Support changing CDC configs dynamically [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
    - Reduce resolved ts message size to save network bandwidth. [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
    - Fix the resolve failures caused by the left pessimisic locks. [#10653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10653)

>     - ```release-note [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

Reviewer: the author commented "no release note" in the PR so I think we could delete this line.

Reviewer 7: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41534398/133871358-af2d305b-5850-4982-93ff-9fdfb4027151.png)

>     - ```release-note [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - limit the hotspot report count. [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)
```
Some of the release notes are newly added and were not fetched before.

    
        - Fix the issue that `greatest(datetime) union null` returns empty string [#26532](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26532)
        - Fix the issue that the `having` clause might not work correctly [#26496](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26496)
        - Fix the wrong execution results that occur when the collations around the `between` expression are different [#27146](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27146)
        - Fix the wrong execution results that occur when the column in the `group_concat` function has a non-bin collation [#27429](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27429)
        - Fix an issue that using a `count(distinct)` expression on multiple columns returns wrong result when the new collation is enabled [#27091](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27091)
        - Fix the result wrong that occurs when the argument of the `extract` function is a negative duration [#27236](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27236)
        - Fix the issue that inserting an invalid date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'STRICT_TRANS_TABLES' [#26762](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26762)

>         - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766] (https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 5.1.2 Release Notes

Release Date: September 27, 2021

TiDB version: 5.1.2

## Compatibility changes

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set compatible version from 5.1.0-alpha to 5.2.0-alpha [#2659](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2659)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2599](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2599)
        - Fix CLI back-compatibility [#2414](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2414)

## Feature enhancements

+ Tools

    + Dumpling

        - Support for backing up MySQL compatible databases that don't support `START TRANSACTION ... WITH CONSISTENT SNAPSHOT` and `SHOW CREATE TABLE`  [#328](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/328)
        - Add a global gRPC connection pool and share gRPC connections among kv clients. [#2534](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2534)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Trigger auto-analyze based on histogram row count [#26708](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26708)
    - push down mod() to TiFlash. [#27865](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27865)

>     - Fix `can not found column in Schema column` error for mpp queries [#28148](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28148)
>     - Fix a bug that TiDB may crash when TiFlash is shutting down. [#28139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28139)
>     - This reverts commit d4cd12fe422fb18b6012607ee18b6acca40d9225. [#28091](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28091)
>     - planner: fix the problem of using `enum like 'x%'` to build the wrong range [#28066](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28066)
>     - fix expression rewrite makes between expr infers wrong collation. [#27549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27549)
>     - execution: fix cte dead lock when used with IndexLookupJoin [#27536](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27536)
>     - Fix a bug that retryable deadlocks are incorrectly recorded into `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DEADLOCKS` table. [#27535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27535)
>     - make `group_concat` function consider the collation [#27529](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27529)
>     - Fix bug that count disctinct on multi-columns return wrong result when new collation is on. [#27506](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27506)
>     - Fix an issue that the `TABLESAMPLE` query result from partitioned tables is not sorted as expected. [#27411](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27411)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     - expression: fix extract bug when argument is a negative duration [#27367](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27367)
>     - The undocumented `/debug/sub-optimal-plan`  HTTP API has been removed. [#27265](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27265)
>     - fix wrong selection push down when having above agg [#27258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27258)
>     - fix a bug that query on hash partition table return wrong reslut [#27164](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27164)
>     - executor: fix unexpected behavior when casting invalid string to date [#27112](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27112)
>     - fix a bug that creates partition fail if `NO_UNSIGNED_SUBTRACTION` is set. [#27053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27053)
>     - planner: add missing distinct flag for Apply convert to join. [#26969](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26969)
>     - Fix an issue that NO_ZERO_IN_DATE does not work on the default values. [#26904](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26904)
>     - store/copr: block the tiflash node for a period when it fails before. [#26897](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26897)
>     - Fix then bug if the CTE is referenced more than once. [#26661](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26661)
>     - planner: fix CTE bug when MergeJoin is used [#26658](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26658)
>     - Fix a bug 'select for update' does not correctly lock the data when a normal table join a partition table. [#26631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26631)
>     - Fix a panic when select for update on a normal table join a partition table [#26563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26563)
>     - Fix the issue that point get does not use lite version resolve lock [#26562](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26562)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

+ TiKV

    - Support changing CDC configs dynamically [#10686](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10686)
    - Reduce resolved ts message size to save network bandwidth. [#10679](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10679)
    - limit the hotspot report count. [#10621](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10621)

+ PD

    - dynamically adjust the retry limit according to the operator [#4048](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4048)
    - allow empty region to be scheduled and use a sperate tolerance config in scatter range scheduler [#4117](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4117)
    - Improved the performance of synchronizing Region information between PDs. [#3933](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3933)

+ TiFlash

    - Support the `DATE()` function
    - Add Grafana panels for write throughput per instance
    - Optimize the performance about `leader-read` process
    - Optimize the process about canceling `MPP` tasks

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Optimize memory management when unified sorter is using memory to sort. [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        - Optimize memory management when the Unified Sorter is using memory to sort. [#2712](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2712)
```

    - Fix a bug of incorrect results that occurs when queries contain filters like `CONSTANT` `<` | `<=` | `>` | `>=` `COLUMN`
    - Fix the potential panic when applying `Snapshot` with multiple DDL operations
    - Fix the issue that the store size in metrics is inaccurate under heavy writing
    - Fix the potential issue that TiFlash cannot GC the delta data after running for a long time
    - Fix the issue of wrong results when new collation is enabled
    - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when resolving locks
    - Fix a bug that metrics display wrong value

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that PD would not fix down-peer in time. [#4083](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4083)
    - Fix an issue where data is not stored when using max-replicas or location-labels to indirectly update default placement rule [#3915](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3915)
    - Fix the bug that PD may panic during scaling out TiKV. [#3911](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3911)
    - Fix the bug that hot region scheduler can not work when the cluster has evict leader scheduler. [#3697](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/3697)

+ Tools

>     + Backup & Restore (BR)
> 
>         - fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate in backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)
> 
>     + Dumpling
> 
>         - fix pending on show table status in some mysql version [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the bug that the average speed isn't accurate during data backup and restore [#1412](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1412)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix pending on show table status in some MySQL versions  (8.0.3, 8.0.23) [#333](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/333)
```
